# NativeTK

NativeTK is a toolkit for cross-platform native bindings in .NET.

To learn how to use NativeTK, check out the example binding [here](./ProjectCeilidh.NativeTK.Example).

## Benefits

* Cross-platform: NativeTK can locate a native library using a variety of common naming schemes for each platform, and even bind specific versions of a library.
* Lightweight: NativeTK generates high-performance bindings using [Mono.Cecil](https://github.com/jbevain/cecil).
  * NativeTK offers both standard `PInvokeImpl`-based interop (the same as generated by C# when using `[DllImport]`) and `CallIndirect`-based interop, which can be faster but lacks marshaling options.
  * NativeTK may soon offer `IJW` (It-Just-Works) binding, the same technique used by `C++/CLI` to interop with native code.
* Static variables: NativeTK can generate references to static variables inside libraries, which is not possible with standard P/Invoke.
* Familiar syntax: NativeTK mimics the syntax of traditional P/Invoke-based native interop, so there's no steep learning curve.
  * Support for common attributes like `[MarshalAs]` and `[SuppressUnmanagedCodeSecurity]` enables fluid and complete control over the generated bindings.

## Downsides

* Interface performance: Because NativeTK uses interfaces for abstraction, there's a slight performance cost on each call when compared with static P/Invoke methods.
  * If performance is a major concern for you, check out the benchmarks [here](./ProjectCeilidh.NativeTK.Benchmark).